# Pre-installed applications

Workspaces come with an array of pre-installed applications, designed to streamline user interaction and reduce the time needed to configure 
a new workspace each time. 

The base Alnoda workspace by default includes two browser-based applications: a terminal and a file browser, and lultiple ommand-line applications. 

## Terminal 

The browser-based terminal eliminates the need to SSH into the Docker image, providing a consistent user experience whether you're operating the workspace locally 
or in the cloud.

## File browser 

The minimalist file browser simplifies file and folder management within the workspace. It eliminates the need to mount local folders as docker volumes 
in the workspace container for file transfer between the workspace and the user's computer. 

Since the file browser has browser-based UI, it ensures a consistent experience regardless of whether the workspace is being used locally or in the cloud.

Furthermore, the file browser features a text editor with code highlighting, offering users a basic but practical code editing tool.

## CLI tools 

The following CLI tools are pre-installed in the base Alnoda workspace:

- [x] z shell (zsh) - shell that offers a more user-friendly and interactive command-line experience. 
- [x] git
- [x] text editors: nano, vim, tilde, mcedit
- [x] tools for managing packages and software dependencies: apt, nix, asdf, pipx 
- [x] tools for interacting with servers and downloading files over the internet: curl, wget 
- [x] tools for archiving and compressing files: tar, zip
- [x] process monitor: htop
- [x] disk usage analyzer: ncdu
- [x] utility to multiplex several virtual consoles: tmux
- [x] utility for better file printing: rich-cli (command `rich file.py` or `p file.py`)

## Python 

Alnoda workspaces come with the default Python and Pip pre-installed. If you need other versions of Python, you can easily install them from the Alnoda Hub.

## Nodeenv 

Alnoda workspaces have nodeenv pre-installed, allowing you to create local Node.js environments. This enhances the workspace's utility by enabling effortless  
installation of Node.js browser-based applications, benefiting from vast collection of Node.js projects.

## Static file server 

Workspaces come with a minimalist Python static file server by default. This tool is highly useful when you need to serve browser-based applications 
or view HTML reports generated by other applications, as it can serve folders or individual HTML websites. 

For instance, you can serve the `/home/project` folder with the Python static file server as follows:

<div class="termy">
```
<font color="#5EA702">cd</font> /home/project; <font color="#5EA702">python</font> -m http.server 8026
```
</div>

Now you can open "My app on port 8026" from the Workspace UI "My apps" tab.